# Parking search caused congestion: Where’s all the fuss?
## Rachel R. Weinberger, Adam Millard-Ball, Robert C. Hampshire

In this paper, Millard-Ball and his colleagues used GPS traces to estimate the level of cruising for parking that occurs in San Francisco, CA and Ann Arbor, MI. Past studies on cruising have often used the level of cruising on specific blocks or neighborhoods and extrapolated them out to estimate that 30% if urban traffic comes from cruising. Millard-Ball's estimates in San Francisco and Ann-Arbor are much lower - he estimates that cruising accounts for less than 1% of vehicle trips in the two cities. Past studies on cruising usually gathered data from driver surveys - which are prone to overstating the difficulty of finding parking - or visual examinations - which are often confined to areas known to have high rates of cruising. By contrast, Millard-Ball used GPS traces to examine trip ends where the driver exceeds the shortest path to their destination by more than 200m, and that a minimum of the excess travel occurs within a 400m radius of the destination. This helps avoid counting trips that occur for reasons unrelated to cruising, such as wrong turns or chains of errands. Millard-Ball analyzed the geography of cruising down to the street level, since he had access to GPS data, as well as temporal patterns of cruising. As someone who has lived in the Bay Area and needed to drive to San Francisco for various reasons, I was somewhat surprised by the (overall) low-levels of cruising Millard-Ball found in downtown San Francisco and in the Mission District. More than once, I have spent over 30 minutes cruising for metered parking (paid or free) in both of those areas. **My question to Millard-Ball is this: is there an analysis of cruising levels in hotspot blocks over time?** I definitely understand and agree with the analysis that cruising is highly specific to certain blocks, rather than specific cities or even neighborhoods, as well as certain times. However, the specificity of this cruising does not mean that it does not pose significant challenges in those areas. Although cruising may not be a very widespread problem, it's a highly accute one, and a more granular analysis could shed particular light on that.
